Added email notifications (#452)
run-ai/docs: docs/admin/researcher-setup/email-messaging.md

|Component|Field|description|default|
|:----|:----|:----|:----|
|`service`|`service.concurrent_limit`|maximum number of events the service will handle in parallel|50|
|`service`|`service.cached_events`|queue size for events before blocking the listener|1000|

### `listener` configuration

This section defines the objects and events that the service will listen to and send as notifications. Use the following table to configure options in the `listener` section of the `configmap` file.

| Component | Field | description | default |
| --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
| `kubelistener` | `listener.relevant_objects` | white list of Kubernetes components for notifications | relevant_objects: <br> `kind:` <br>    `Podreasons:UnschedulableScheduled` <br><br> `kind:` <br>`PodGroupreasons: -Evict` |
| `kubelistener` | `listener.relevant_namespaces` | white list of namespaces that the service should listen to for events (regex) | `runai-.*` |

### `enrich` configuration

Use the following table to configure options in the `enrich` section of the `configmap` file.

| Component | Field | description | default |
| --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |

> |`KubeMetadata`|`enricher.kubeMetadata.lables`|maps the event related object labels to specific properties in the output event | `release: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`training.kubeflow.org/job-name: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`serving.knative.dev/service: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`project: project`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`KubeMetadata`|`enricher.kubeMetadata.lables`| for internal use only - keep the default values | `release: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`training.kubeflow.org/job-name: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`serving.knative.dev/service: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`project: project`|
```

Author: I will move this to a note at the top or bottom of the table.

> |`KubeMetadata`|`enricher.kubeMetadata.annotations`|maps the related object annotations to event properties|`"user": "user"`|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`KubeMetadata`|`enricher.kubeMetadata.annotations`|for internal use only - keep the default values|`"user": "user"`|
```

Author: Same as above.

### `notify` configuration

This section defines the notification configuration of the service and contains the details for the SMTP server and the recipients list.
Use the following table to configure options in the `notify` section of the `configmap` file.

|Component|Field|description|default|

> |--- |--- |--- |--- |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|`Email`|`notify.email.template_path` (M)|for internal use only - keep with the default value|sinks_templates/email.html|
```

Author: The |--|-- needs to be there for the MD to know its a table.

|`Email`|`notify.email.smtp_host` (M)|SMTP server host address|Empty|
|`Email`|`notify.email.smtp_port` (M)|SMTP server port|587|
|`Email`|`notify.email.from_display_name` (M)|email's "From" display name|Run:ai|
|`Email`|`notify.email.from` (M)|a valid domain source email address|test@run.ai|
|`Email`|`notify.email.user` (M)|SMTP server user login|user|
|`Email`|`notify.email.password` (M)|SMTP server user's password |password|
|`Email`|`notify.email.direct_notifications` (together with Recipients)|when set to true, email notifications will be sent dynamically to the user who submitted the workload|false|
|`Email`|`notify.email.recipients` (together with Direct Notifications)|additional email address recipients list for all the events - broadcast|Empty list|

**(M)** = mandatory to include in the `configmap` file.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can change the service configuration values after installation, using the -f flag.
```
@jasonnovichRunAI I would add it here but we need to wait for Roi's answer as well

Author: ok

# Email notifications

The notifications service listens to events on the Kubernetes cluster and passes notifications of those events to an email server. The service can be configured to send the notifications to one or more pre configured email addresses, or to the email address of the user that submitted the workload.

> Note: In order to send notifications dynamically to the user  who submitted the workload, the user should be logged in to a Run:ai UI or CLI.

Author: ```suggestion
Note: In order to send notifications dynamically to the user who submitted the workload, the user should be logged in to the Run:ai UI or CLI.
```

> Note: In order to send notifications dynamically to the user  who submitted the workload, the user should be logged in to a Run:ai UI or CLI.

Author: @gal-revach small grammar correction.

The service can also be configured using a regular expression to send notifications only for specific namespaces on the cluster. This enables notification only for specific Run:ai projects. The default configuration sends notifications for all the namespaces starting with `runai-`.

## Prerequisites

1. The service should be installed on each cluster used with Run:ai. The installation will be done separately from the Run:ai cluster installation using a new helm chart.
2. As a part of the installation, the customer should provide their SMTP server address as well as credentials for it.

## Available notifications

> You can receive notifications both from Run:ai and from Kubernetes.

Author: ```suggestion
```

The following Run:ai notifications are available for event messaging:

|Event|Kind (for config)|Reason (for config)|Description|Run:ai version|Additional info|
|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|:----|
|Pod Scheduled|`Pod`|`Scheduled`|a pod was scheduled on a node|2.9 and above|Pod, Job, Project, Namespace, User|
|Pod Evicted|`PodGroup`|`Evict`|a pod was evicted to make room for another pod with higher priority, or reclaim resources that belong to other project or department|2.9 and above|Pod, Job, Project, Namespace, User|
|Pod unschedulable|`Pod`|`Unschedulable`|a pod was determined as unschedulable and couldn't be scheduled on any node in the cluster|2.9 and above|Pod, Job, Project, Namespace, User|
|Failed scheduling pod|`Pod`|`FailedScheduling`|binding a pod to a node failed|2.9 and above|Pod, Job, Project, Namespace, User|

> 

Author: ```suggestion
You can configure the notifications service to listen to other Kubernetes events and send it via email by using the relevant `Kind` and event `Reason`.
```

## Installation

Install the notification service using the following commands:

1. Set the help repo to point to the notification service package using the following command:

```
helm repo add runai-notifications-service https://storage.googleapis.com/runai-notifications-service/

helm repo update
```

2. Check for the latest version using the following command

```
helm repo search runai-notifications-service 

```

3. Install the latest version using the following command:

```
helm install runai-notifications-service/notifications-service --version 0.0.0
```

Note:

> You can change the service configuration values with the -f flag or edit them after installation.

Author: @gal-revach this was what was in the file.
@Snirx1 Can you help?

> You can change the service configuration values with the -f flag or edit them after installation.

Reviewer 2: yes. if it makes it less clear just write that they can configure it post install i guess

> You can change the service configuration values with the -f flag or edit them after installation.

Reviewer: @roir what do the user need to do to update? adjust the config map and apply it with -f?

## Configuration

The notification service is configured using a `configmap` file. The following is an example of a `configmap` file. Each of the tables below references a section in the `configmap` file.

### `service` configuration

This section defines the number of events that will be sent by the service. Use the following table to configure options in the `service` section of the `configmap` file.

|Component|Field|description|default|
|:----|:----|:----|:----|
|`service`|`service.concurrent_limit`|maximum number of events the service will handle in parallel|50|
|`service`|`service.cached_events`|queue size for events before blocking the listener|1000|

### `listener` configuration

This section defines the objects and event the service will listen to and send as notifications. Use the following table to configure options in the `listener` section of the `configmap` file.

| Component | Field | description | default |
| --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |

> | `kubelistener` | `listener.relevant_objects` | white list of Kubernetes components to filter by events | relevant_objects: <br> `kind:` <br>    `Podreasons:UnschedulableScheduled` <br><br> `kind:` <br>`PodGroupreasons: -Evict` |

Author: ```suggestion
| `kubelistener` | `listener.relevant_objects` | white list of Kubernetes components for notifications | relevant_objects: <br> `kind:` <br>    `Podreasons:UnschedulableScheduled` <br><br> `kind:` <br>`PodGroupreasons: -Evict` |
```

| `kubelistener` | `listener.relevant_namespaces` | white list of namespaces that the service should listen to for events (regex) | `runai-.*` |

### `enrich` configuration

> Use the following table to configure options in the `enrich` section of the `configmap` file.

Author: @Snirx1 can you help?

> Use the following table to configure options in the `enrich` section of the `configmap` file.

Reviewer: @roir can you please help? not sure if we should expose this to customers as we have a predefined set of event properties we display in the email itself

> Use the following table to configure options in the `enrich` section of the `configmap` file.

Reviewer 2: in short - i agree

the long version -
the service can be configured to extract various annotations and labels from pods, however, if the constraint is the email template than i guess we shouldn't expose to customers. 
the fact that we can configure it internally makes it wasier for us to develop/support extra requirements in the future but is not necessarily a product feature we want/need to expose

> Use the following table to configure options in the `enrich` section of the `configmap` file.

Reviewer: @roir can the service function without this section? my assumption is that it won't work well because we won't have the labels/annotation mapping

| Component | Field | description | default |
| --- |  --- |  --- |  --- |
|`KubeMetadata`|`enricher.kubeMetadata.lables`|maps the event related object labels to specific properties in the output event | `release: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`training.kubeflow.org/job-name: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`serving.knative.dev/service: workloadDisplayName` <br><br>`project: project`|
|`KubeMetadata`|`enricher.kubeMetadata.annotations`|maps the related object annotations to event properties|`"user": "user"`|

### `notify` configuration

This section defines the notification configuration of the service and contains the details for the SMTP server and the recipients list.
Use the following table to configure options in the `notify` section of the `configmap` file.

|Component|Field|description|default|
|--- |--- |--- |--- |

> |`Email`|`notify.email.template_path` (M)|path to the email template to use for the events|sinks_templates/email.html|

Author: ```suggestion
```

|`Email`|`notify.email.smtp_host` (M)|smtp server host address|Empty|
|`Email`|`notify.email.smtp_port` (M)|smtp server port|587|

> |`Email`|`notify.email.from_display_name` (M)|email from display name|Run:ai|

Author: ```suggestion
|`Email`|`notify.email.from_display_name` (M)|email 's "From" display name|Run:ai|
```

> |`Email`|`notify.email.from_display_name` (M)|email from display name|Run:ai|

Author: @gal-revach is this ok?

|`Email`|`notify.email.from` (M)|a valid domain source email address|test@run.ai|

> |`Email`|`notify.email.user` (M)|smtp server user to use for login|user|

Author: ```suggestion
|`Email`|`notify.email.user` (M)|SMTP server user login|user|
```
Those who have configured SMTP serves in the past know that a user is required for login and authentication. SO I shortened it. Let me know if this is ok.

> |`Email`|`notify.email.password` (M)|smtp server password to use for login|password|

Author: ```suggestion
|`Email`|`notify.email.password` (M)|SMTP server user's password |password|
```
Same as above.
